[MUSIC PLAYING]
[AUDIO LOGO]
[THEME MUSIC]
>> 2,500 miles off
the coast of Peru,
in the middle of the
South Pacific Ocean,
is one of the most
mysterious prediluvian sites
on the planet.
Easter Island, also
referred to as Rapa Nui.
In 2017, a team of researchers
dug up Moai monoliths
on Easter Island and
were stunned to find
the statues bodies buried
below the Earth some 33 feet.
While excavating these
statues, the team
found etched
petroglyphs on the backs
of the figures, most commonly
in the shape of crescents,
as well as hands that wrapped
across the figure's waists.
They also discovered
red dye on the monoliths
that scientists
determined was created
by heating a mixture of
magnetite and hematite.
Mainstream understanding is
that the ancient inhabitants
of Easter Island were
only 800 years old
and that the Moai
monoliths reflect this age.
But alternative
researchers point out
that this discovery
uncovers a much older truth.
One that brings back
the timeline of humanity
before the Great Deluge.
>> So 2017, finally, the year
archeologists had a chance
to dig deep into Easter Islands
and look at the Moai who,
we tend to think of these
beautiful little faces looking
at the sky.
Well, imagine to their
surprise that they
dig 40 feet into
the volcanic tuff
and, well, they have a body,
and that the resemblance
of legs and the hands nicely
positioned around the navel.
And on top of it, they found
some lovely inscriptions
on the back of the
statues, like tattoos.
Even with a little bit of
the red ocher still attached
to it suggesting
that the statues
themselves had been painted
in the earlier times.
This is very important for
a whole bunch of reasons.
For once, we can actually get
to the bottom of the statue,
literally, put a
probe under the statue
and extricate some
organic material
to find out how old the
statues have been there.
And I've been in touch with the
lead archeologist at the site.
And it's like, well, we've
found some organic material.
Yes, we can now do some DNA.
We can actually tell when
the statues were put there.
And meanwhile, four years
later, the information
still hasn't been made public.
And I'm not a
conspiracy theorist,
but I'm beginning to
suspect that the dates are
going to be very uncomfortable
for mainstream archeology.
And having spoken to geologists
on the subject, that 40-feet
of material covering
a very long body
does not account for
800 years of erosion
on Easter Island,
especially given
the climate in Easter Islands.
So we're talking about
a dating which is going
to be very, very inconvenient.
>> At Easter Island, we
have these great Moai heads.
And everyone thought that
just stopped at the chest.
Actually, when they
started digging,
they discovered that these
Moai had full bodies,
super megalithic bodies.
Now when you look
at these bodies,
they had all this
ornate carving on them.
If you look at the same
thing at Gobekli Tepe,
where they dug out this area
and found these pillars,
they have these same
ornate drawings on them.
You can see the similar
birds, similar animals.
And what's incredible
is the animals and birds
and the other objects
carved are not
from the region, neither from
Gobekli Tepe nor Easter Island.
So what is this?
How can we have two of the
very similar carvings of things
not from those regions,
halfway across the world.
So Easter Island was an
eye opener for a lot of us
to make us say, well obviously,
these civilizations were
linked in some way.
>> So there are similarities
between the styles of carving,
the 3D relief carving on Easter
Island as there are places like
Gobekli Tepe.
Now people think there's no
connection between these two
ancient cultures, but there
really looks like there is.
I mean, one of the
most obvious things
is the fact that they have
these hands, very long fingers
pointing towards the navel.
Now not only do we get that
design on the Gobekli Tepe T
pillars, in these abstract human
forms, we get it on the Moai.
But also we must remember that
in tradition, Easter Island
was traditionally called
the navel of the world.
Likewise, Gobekli Tepe
was called Potbelly Hill.
Again, referencing the navel.
And this is all about the
omphalos, the sacred center,
and building your
civilization around this kind
of sacred point.
And both of these had
the same tradition
which is very, very strange.
A site called Nevali Cori
in Southeast Turkey, which
dates to around 10,000
to 11,000 years old,
it's now been destroyed.
This is one of the sister sites
to Gobekli Tepe and Karahan
Tepe.
And here, they have
multiple statues, again,
like Easter Island, with these
hands going towards the navel.
But one of the statues
has an identical design
to what we find on
one of the bases
that Moai stand on
in Easter Island.
And it appears to
be like two dancing,
standing up human forms.
And this is on one
of the statues,
and it's partly ceramic
that we find at Nevali Cori.
But it's also on one of
the foundation blocks
of the Moais in Easter Island.
And when I looked at them,
I couldn't believe it.
They're almost identical.
>> Several ancient traditions
speak of specific energy
centers, or chakras,
within the human body.
Could the posture of these
megalithic prediluvian statues
be pointing future
civilizations to the importance
of these sacred
areas in the body?
>> When we consider the
possibility that ancient
civilizations,
prediluvian civilizations,
could have developed in a
cyclic manner and that there is
a continuity of knowledge
and information, tradition,
that is carried
from cycle to cycle,
one of the key places that
we begin to see some of these
traditions is with the
depictions of the people who
lived during these times.
The people themselves.
How are they depicted, what
are their body postures, what
are they showing
us about themselves
and their relationship
to the world.
Easter Island is a
fascinating example of this.
As the excavations have
revealed more to the statues
in the Easter Island than were
known to exist in the past,
as the excavations have
taken below ground level
and shown that there are
entire bodies that accompany
the heads, it's
the hand positions
that are intriguing scholars.
The way the hands are
placed on the body.
They're not simply
at their sides,
but they're showing a
particular part of the body.
And the question is, do we
see that in other places?
The answer is, we do.
And we see it in a
very interesting way.
In Peru, for example,
there is the legend
that lake Titicaca of how
the Peruvian people began.
When a being from another
world came to this world,
and the being that came
is named Tumi, T-U-M-I.
And Tumi's hands are
always placed also in front
of the body, to the very
particular part of the body,
on the heart chakra.
Perhaps one of the
most fascinating
is with Gobekli Tepe, where
we see the representations
of the humans, and their hands
are placed on the solar plexus
as well.
So we have two
cultures hands placed
precisely the same place.
Well, when we begin looking at
other cultures, what we find
is that their hands are placed
on other chakras as well.
In Easter Island, they
are lower energy centers
or lower chakras.
Peru, middle chakras.
And when we look
into Egypt, we begin
seeing that the hands are placed
over the solar plexus chakra.
Each of these has very
particular significance
within the culture itself.
With Peru being a very
feminine, very heart
based culture, for example.
In Easter Island,
what we find is
that it is that
energy of survival
and being able to transcend
the elements whatever hardships
and challenges face
the people, that
is derived from those lower
energy centers, precisely where
the hands are placed
from the statues that
are being excavated today.
Is it possible that the Moai are
sharing the same period of time
or the same age
when the hardships
of the Earth and the
challenges the people faced
were so great that
they had to draw
upon this aspect of
themselves just to survive?
>> We also have now the idea
that the statues themselves
with their hands
pointing at the belly.
These are found all the
way throughout Polynesia.
They're found in the Korean
Peninsula, found in South
America, and Gobekli Tepe.
So here's the connection.
If the earliest carbon-14
dating of Gobekli Tepe
is now at 10,200 BC,
we have a problem.
Because the same image of
the pillar with the hands
clutching the belly is also
found in Easter Island,
and the debris on Easter Island
is much old than 800 years.
Now we begin to
realize that whoever
put the statues on
Easter Island and carved
the statues in
Gobekli Tepe, they
had to be bore in
from the same manual.
They may have been ostensibly
the same people, or at least
the same groups of people
belonging to the same academy.
And not just that, but
different academies
around the world who are bore
in from exactly the same manual,
and they're all following
the same procedure.
It opens up the whole
story of humanity.
>> Could these monoliths connect
with the ancient structures
of Gobekli Tepe?
And if so, does that
mean they could have been
carved over 12,000 years ago?
An ancient carving
has been found
on the back of these heads.
How does this connect the
inhabitants of Easter Island
to the Middle East,
Turkey, or even Egypt?
>> In 1864, we find a Roman
Catholic friar was exploring
the villages in Easter Island.
And what he noticed is in many
of the homes of the Rapa Nui
people, the Native
people of Easter Island,
he would find various
sticks or tablets
that had these strange
etchings on them.
And as he looked
at the etchings,
he noticed that they were in
the shape of humans or animals,
or other geometric forms.
And when he asked the
people what they are,
they would say, oh,
it's Rongorongo.
And when we go into the Rapa
Nui language, the language
of the Native
Easter Islanders, we
find that Rongorongo means
to speak out or to cite.
So it suggests that
it's a form of language.
But what does this
language mean?
Unfortunately, we don't know.
We don't have enough
examples of it.
way of correlating it
to other languages.
So we can't quite translate
what this language is.
And even when we were to
ask native Rapa Nui people,
we get some mixed messages here.
Some people seem to
suggest that they know it,
but they're not going to let
outsiders know what these mean.
And other people
suggest, no, we don't
know what this is all about.
So unfortunately, the
language of Rongorongo
continues to be undeciphered.
But what we find very
interesting is in Pakistan,
thousands of miles
away, Mohenjo-daro
has almost the exact
same form of writing.
So what does that suggest?
>> Rongorongo is a mysterious
script that is found
on tablets, wooden tablets,
that were discovered at Easter
Island and created by
the Easter Islanders.
And for a long time, nobody
could decipher this script.
It has these very
strange figures.
These humanoid figures
with dots beside them,
or bird-headed humans,
or these circular images
that made no sense to anybody.
Then recently, Dr.
Robert Schoch was
investigating Easter Island.
And his wife, Catherine Ulissey,
made an important discovery.
She looked at the Rongorongo
script and said, wait a minute,
this looks exactly like what
Dr. Anthony Peratt from Texas
is investigating
with plasma forms.
When solar storms occur, we
see these very strange images
that can form in the sky.
Well, Catherine Ulissey
looks at these images
and compares it to
the Rongorongo script
and realizes they're
virtually identical,
and puts forward the
hypothesis that what
we could be looking at
with the Rongorongo script
are ancient records of what
the Easter Islanders saw
in the night sky or during this
time of intense solar flare
activity.
The thing is this
solar flare activity
is dated to around 10,000 BC.
So what's happening here
with the Rongorongo script
is that they are repeating
over and over these imagery
and they might have lost
the original meaning.
In other words,
they didn't realize
it referred to what they
were seeing in the sky.
However, it is a
faithful reproduction
of what one could have seen
during a high plasma event
as recorded in
the ancient world.
Investigators have been
comparing the symbols
that we see on
the Moai with what
we see at places
like Gobekli Tepe
and finding a very
important correspondence.
This is important
because, once again,
if the Easter
Islanders are recording
what they saw in a plasma
event around 10,000 BC,
this aligns with the time
period in which Gobekli Tepe is
constructed as well.
So it's suggesting that
both of these cultures
are seeing the same
thing in the sky
and recording the same symbols.
>> What's interesting about
Rongorongo is that they're like
hieroglyphs, very similar
to Egyptian hieroglyphs even
though they're
totally different.
And all attempts to
decipher them have actually
been unsuccessful.
But again, how did they get
there, who put them there,
and what is the connection
between Rongorongo
and the Indus Valley?
>> One of the great enigmas
of Easter Island is a written
language.
This is known to us as
the Rongorongo language.
Rongorongo would
seem to have been
part of the culture of
Easter Island which involved
the symbolism of the birdman.
This would seem to have
been very, very important.
And we find this
bird man imagery
within the different
picture graphs
of the Rongorongo language.
The problem is that
we can't decipher it,
nor can they, the Easter
Island peoples of today.
But as early as
1936, it was realized
that there was some similarity
between the Rongorongo script
and a similar script found
in the Indus Valley, of what
is today Pakistan.
And it was realized
that there may well
have been some cross contact
between the Indus Valley
civilization all the way out
into the Pacific and Polynesia,
all the way across
to Easter Island.
That would suggest that
there was some common source
of this written language
that links the Indus Valley
culture with this lost
script at Easter Island.
So what is the link?
I mean, that is the
greatest mystery.
Because what it could suggest is
that peoples coming all the way
from what is today
Pakistan and India,
actually went all the
way out into the Pacific
and reached as far
as Easter Island.
>> Could these ancient
civilizations be using these
monuments to tell us something
they collectively witnessed
in the sky thousands
of years ago?
Were these massive statues
depictions of the prediluvian
gods during the time
of the Mu civilization?
What other clues around
these megalithic marvels
point to the interconnection
of prediluvian civilizations?
>> There are some really
interesting structures
on Easter Island and
they are called the ahu,
and it literally means
a sacred platform.
There's quite a number of them.
Some of them are
newer than others.
And you can tell the
older ones because they A,
built with much bigger
stone, and also they're
made out of really
hard stone as if you
want to make life really
easy for yourself.
Go for the hardest rock and
make it as big as possible.
And it's funny how we
go forward in time,
the work gets smaller
and much more decrepit.
So if we look at
the oldest ahu, it's
a great word because
it's actually a variation
of an Egyptian word called aha.
And an aha was the nickname
for a group of gods,
who were pre-flood gods,
called the Acu Shemsu Hor,
literally the shining
ones, followers of Horus.
So what is the
Egyptian word that
is describing the
gods of Egypt doing
on an island in the
middle of the Pacific?
Well, you find the rest of that
story in South America, where
the same people are known by
a completely different name.
But you have to
understand Aymara language
in that connection.
So the connection is if you
look at these platforms,
the sacred platforms of
the gods in Easter Island,
you'd also find the same
method of construction
in Sacsayhuaman,
at Machu Picchu,
and also at the base of
the pyramid attributed
to Menkaure in Giza plateau,
also at the Osireion in Abydos.
So now we have a problem here.
Because we have the same
method of construction
on a tiny island 19 miles by 3
in the middle of the Pacific,
which is found in South
America and also in Egypt.
And again, the connecting
point to all of this
is the name of the platform,
which is the word that's
only found in Egypt.
And it defines the
very people who
were the gods, who
used to travel around
the world in canoes, who
are master astronomers.
They all appear
in groups of seven
led by one charismatic
leader, no matter
which continent you're in.
>> These Moai statues were
placed on these platforms
called ahu.
And these were to support them.
But there is one of
them known as Vinapu,
and it's constructed of
massive polygonal blocks that
perfectly fit together.
And you can hardly fit
a banknote between them.
And when this was first
discovered in the 19th century,
the Vinapu Ahu, with its
polygon or stone wall,
was absolutely in
perfect condition.
Unfortunately, a certain amount
of very crude excavations
has destroyed part of it today.
But it's still there and
it can still be viewed.
But what's so
significant about this
is that it is very, very similar
to megalithic polygonal stone
walls in places like the
complex of Sacsayhuaman,
which is just on the edge of
the city of Cuzco in Peru.
And it was the great
explorer, Thor Heyerdahl,
in the 1960s who
proposed that there
may have been a link between
the peoples of Easter
Island and the Peruvian
civilizations, maybe the Incas.
And he believed
that Peru was Hiva,
the actual point of foundation
of the people of Easter Island.
Having said this,
there is good evidence
that Hiva was
actually a lost land
to the west of Easter Island.
Because firstly, it would seem
that the earliest founders
of the Rapa Nui
culture may well have
come from an island group
known as the Marquesas islands.
And this is where they brought
this huge spherical stone
from which now represents the
navel of the world on Easter
Island.
But that was not
their start point.
It would seem as if they
came from much further west.
And if we are looking
for some kind of landmass
that could have
constituted Hiva,
then the most obvious place
of foundation is Sundaland.
Sundaland was the
huge island landmass
that is now today
Indonesia, which
was once linked via peninsula
to mainland Southeast Asia,
and would seem to have had
high culture there going back
possibly as much as 20,000
to 25,000 years ago.
So it is possible that the
earliest settlers on Easter
Island started their
journey as far West as what
is today Indonesia.
>> Was there an ancient
civilization that spaned
the entire globe?
And if so, who
were they, and why
were remnants of
their culture left
scattered across the planet?
>> So first of all,
Easter Island, Rapa Nui,
is one of the three main spots
of the Pacific Ocean protecting
the territory of Mu.
We have to remember also that
for the ancient civilizations,
the power that they discovered
about themselves was according
to special spots in the planet.
So they would take care of those
special spots on the planet,
protecting them.
So the main territory
of the Pacific Ocean
was protected between Hawaii,
Easter Island, Rapa Nui,
and North Island in New Zealand.
So this triangle were protecting
the main paths and doors
of the Mu civilization
in the Pacific Ocean.
So Rapa Nui was
the last connection
to go to South
America and to connect
with all information there,
as also for North America,
in some cases, in
Central America, mostly.
So it was like one
of the sacred spots
to connect with the Andes.
And somehow, South
America was trying
to be protected by
the Mu civilization
so the Atlantis
civilization wouldn't
get the last part of the
snake of the planet, which
was the root chakra of
the snake going down.
And that would allow
any civilization
that would control that to
manifest around the world.
So that's why they were taking
care of the Andes in that time.
And that island there,
which is one of the greatest
portals of the network,
was the guardian
of the Andes and the Pacific.
So they were not heads,
they were entire bodies.
But they would be the guardians
of the whole territory,
the guardians of everything.
So they would be protecting
the main connection
that they had with other
dimensions down-up.
So that's why they would
be position in a way
that they would
protect the main portal
of the whole territories.
The Andes and the Pacific
relies on the power of Rapa Nui
to connect to the skies.
That was their thing in
that part of the world.
So the huge statues would be
like the Sphinx of the Pacific
Ocean taking care, that
anyone from outside
would be able to
go to those portals
or to go through this special
portal of the entire Pacific.
So just a few of them were
looking towards the skies, that
were the guardians that
received information from above,
and the other ones were
spreading the information
and protecting the information.
So those people
standing there were
like a symbol to manifest
all the guardians of Mu.
All the wise people of Mu
manifested there for eternity.
It's like in Egyptian
tradition, carving the shapes
of the kings and the queens.
So they did the same,
but with the wise ones
that would take care forever of
those portals in the Pacific.
>> If the megaliths on this
island are part of an ancient
Mu civilization, did the
inhabitants of this island also
understand how to use the
energetic properties within
these massive stones?
>> The Moai that we find on
Easter Island are actually very
consistent with other standing
stones that we find around
the world.
So these standing
stones were often
thought of as being
representations of the gods.
It was like a signal
out to the gods.
And these stones, many
times, had, I'm going to say,
crystalline properties or some
kind of vibrational properties
of their own.
And they were often
placed in areas
where there was a high
vibrational energy, often
considered telluric energy.
>> I think Easter Island was
part of the ancient Mu empire
because it does one particular
thing that ancient sites
worldwide don't.
So Easter Island has its own
unique energetic properties.
Mainly down to Earth energies,
but the shape of the Easter
Island statues as well.
Going back to the 1930, you had
two very famous master dowsers
called Chaumery and de Belizal.
And they looked into the
shape of Easter Island statues
and made models to the, near
enough the same size but much
smaller, a harmonic of it.
And what they found
and discovered
about these harmonic
statues that they created
is that they could generate
such a strong energy field.
And they researched
it and found that
within three days using these
models of the Easter Island
statues, that they
could preserve meat.
They could make energy travel.
So it's interesting to
know that on Easter Island,
all of the statues
are facing outwards.
All of them are generating
a force field that
is exceptionally powerful that
can regenerate and push out
what some would say is
such an immense force,
it could be tapped into.
And I think it was a component
of their ancient civilization
to generate that
particular frequency.
It's not generated on that level
anywhere else in the world.
>> Could Easter Island be the
last remaining key of an even
older network on the planet,
spanning thousands of years
before the known
civilizations on this planet?
If this is the case,
could their existence
have been one in connection with
the Earth on a deeper level?
A cataclysm might have destroyed
a great advanced civilization
but one thing
remains, ancient stone
heads with bodies
providing evidence
that scientists have
barely scratched
the surface of understanding.
Evidence of an
ancient prediluvian
time we can barely fathom.
[MUSIC PLAYING]